
module load intel
module laod imkl

LDLIBS=-lopenblas make dgesv
CC=icc LDLIBS=-mkl make dgesv

1. What is the purpose of this code? What does the code compute to get it?

   It initializes two random matrices and considers this a linear system of equation, the size of it is given in the argument passed when executing
   It uses the dgesv function of the openblas LAPack (linear algebra package), to compute the solution of the given system. 
   The mathematical method used by dgesv is the "LU decomposition with partial pivoting" 
   (source : https://netlib.org/lapack/explore-html/d7/d3b/group__double_g_esolve_ga5ee879032a8365897c3ba91e3dc8d512.html)


2. Briefly describe alternative mathematical methods to perform the same operation.

The Cramer's rule is another alternative to this, it uses calculation of the determinant of the system to create a solution
aside from more mathematical solution, there are iterative solution that try to create a random guess of the solution before refining that guess
in an iterative fashion. 


3. What alternative(s) do you think is more demanding, from a computational point of view and in terms of memory consumption?

The Cramer's rule is more demanding that the other since it requires the calculation of a determinant which is computationally very heavy, and requires to have several submatrices in memory

4. What do you think can be the best candidate(s) for a parallel implementation?

the cramer's rule although heavy might be interesting since it has a lot of independant calculation
The iterative method requires a recursive sequence to be calculated which limits the amount of computation that can be parallelized
the LU decomposition has the advantage of being lower in computation and having a lot of computation that don't depend on a previous iteration so it might be the best candidate

5. Choose one of the described methods to code your own sequential implementation in C, using the provided code skeleton.

I chose to implement the Cramer's rule into code since it was asked of us to code a pretty naïve method, but after testing the code
we see that for a 64x64 matrix it takes about 2 seconds for the Cramer's rule to be implemented, 
but when using a 128x 128 matrix it jumps up to 60 seconds.

During the code I didn't pay attention to cache utilization, and taking advantage of some loop architecture, as it was asked of us to create something that wasn't "too fast"
But seeing as it takes a whole minute for a 128x128 matrix, for the next assignement I will use another implementation to solve a linear system of equation
(maybe the LU decomposition and use the LAPACKE implementation as a baseline to reach or the iterative method which seemed interesting although hard to parallelize)